Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
A.A programming language is a formal language that specifies a set of instructions that can be used to produce various kinds of output.
What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
-Java Development Kit -JDK contains various components such as Run Time Interpreter, The Compiler, The Debugger, The Applet Viewer,The Header, API Source Code, The class file disassembler and The Documentation Generator.  
What is IDE?
-Integrated Development Environment is an application which enables users to more easily write and debug Java programs. 
What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
-Eclipse, IntelliJ

Explain the entire java life cycle.-Java code is written in text editor or in java IDE and saved as dot(.)java extension which is then compiled by using java compiler and create a .class file. Class file contains bytecodes. The class file then load into the JVM using java loader. Finally JVM reads the bytecodes in memory and translate them into machine code for us to see the output.  


what is class?
-Class is a blueprint of an Object 


What is object?
-Object is an instance of a class. 

What is the entry point of an application?
-Main Method 
Why main is static?
-The main method is static because they can be invoked by the runtime engine without having to instantiate an instance of the parent class. 

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
 The Object class, which is stored in the java.lang package, is the ultimate superclass of all Java classes (except for Object ).
What is difference between path and classpath variables?

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
.Main difference is methods of a Java interface are implicitly abstract and cannot have implementations. A Java abstract class can have instance methods that implements a default behavior. 2.Variables declared in a Java interface is by default final. An abstract class may contain non-final variables.
Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
-No, It's because we can't create an object in abstract class
what is Access Specifier?
Access Specifier just basically gives us access to the class  
What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
-Object Oriented Programming System Object Orientated Programming System. -Encapsulation is data hiding -Inheritance is a way to acquire properties from one class to another class -Abstraction is implementation hiding -Polymorphism is basically an ability to take on many forms. Two types of Polymorphism (Overloading and Overriding)  
What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
java.lang package is imported by default, no need to explicitly import it. Classes in the java.lang package do not need to be imported (the compiler acts like they are always imported).
What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
-Java API is a list of all the classes that are part of the Java Development Kit(JDK)  
Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
Yes but through interface only 
What is method overloading and when it happens?
-In overloading we can have the same name but different parameters It happens in compile time  
Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
-When an error occurs within a method, the method creates an object and hands it off to the runtime system. The object, called an exception object, contains information about the error, including its type and the state of the program when the error occurred. Creating an exception object and handing it to the runtime system is called throwing an exception. -The Exceptions are handled using try and catch method 
What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
-Static keyword that are used for share the same variable or method of a given class. -Static variable:1)It's a variable that's associated with a class and not with the object of the class.                2)Static variables are initialized only once. -Static Method: 1)A static method belongs to the class rather than object of a class.                 2) A static method can be invoked without the need for creating an instance of a class.                 3) Static method can access static data member and can change the value of it. 
What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
-Final is used to apply restrictions on class, method and variable. Final class can't be inherited, final method can't be overridden and final variable value can't be changed. it's a method For example if we declare final int x = 1; we wont be ble to change the value of x later on because we declared it as a final method.  
What is final, finally and finalize?
-Final is used to apply restrictions on class, method and variable. Final class can't be inherited, final method can't be overridden and final variable value can't be changed. it's a method  -Finally is used to place important code, it will be executed whether exception is handled or not. It's a block  -Finalize is used to perform clean up processing just before object is garbage collected. Finalize is a method.   
What is a constructor ?
-Constructor is used to initialize an object. A class can have multiple constructor. If a class doesn&'t have constructor, it will take default constructor

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
-yes we can have multiple constractor
If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
-Default constractor
What is "this" keyword in java ?
-this. is a reference variable in Java that refers to the current object.
What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
-"Super" keyword is used to call the constructor, methods and properties of a parent class.     -super can be used to refer immediate parent class instance variable.     -super can be used to invoke immediate parent class method.     -super() can be used to invoke immediate parent class constructor.   
What is JVM stand for ?
-Java Virtual Machine   
Is JVM platform independent?
JVM is dependent on the OS you are using like Windows or Linux. Java code compiled on any platform can be executed by any JVM. This way JVM makes java platform independent.

What version of java are you using?
1.8
What is JAR stand for ?
-Java Archive is a package file format typically used to aggregate many Java class files and associated metadata and resources (text, images, etc.) into one file for distribution.  
What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
Java Development Kit (in short JDK) is Kit which provides the environment to develop and execute(run) the Java program. JDK is a kit(or package) which includes two things
Java Virtual machine(JVM) is a very important part of both JDK and JRE because it is contained or inbuilt in both. Whatever Java program you run using JRE or JDK goes into JVM and JVM is responsible for executing the java program line by line hence it is also known as interpreter.
Development Tools(to provide an environment to develop your java programs)

JRE (to execute your java program).

What is compile time and run time?
-When an application is running, it is called runtime. -The source code must be compiled into machine code in order to become and executable program, this is referred to as compile time.  
What is heap?
-Heap is the runtime data area from which memory for all class instances and arrays is allocated. 
How java manage it's memory?
-Java objects reside in an area called the heap. The heap is created when the JVM starts up and may increase or decrease  in size while the application runs.  

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
-Once a String object is created it cannot be changed -StringBuffer is mutable means one can change the value of the object . -StringBuilder allows manipulating character sequences by appending, deleting and inserting characters and strings.  

What is Singleton class?
-Singleton class is to control object creation by keeping private constructor
What is Serialization and Deserialization?
Serialization is a process of converting an object into a sequence of bytes which can be persisted to a disk or database or can be sent through streams. The reverse process of creating object from sequence of bytes is called deserialization.

when to use transient variable in java?
A transient variable is a variable that may not be serialized. You use the transient keyword to indicate to the Java virtual machine that the indicated variable is not part of the persistent state of the object.

Difference between while and do..while loop?
Only difference between these two loops is that, in while loops, test expression is checked at first but, in do...while loop code is executed at first then the condition is checked. So, the code are executed at least once in do...while loops.

What is Enum?
A Java Enum is a special Java type used to define collections of constants. More precisely, a Java enum type is a special kind of Java class. An enum can contain constants, methods etc. Java enums were added in Java 5.

What is Iterator?
An iterator over a Collection. Iterator takes the place of Enumeration in the Java collections framework. Iterators differ from Enumerations in two ways: Iterators allow the caller to remove elements from the underlying collection during the iteration with well-defined semantics.

Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
In that case, int , is 2 bytes. However, implementations are free to go beyond that minimum, as you will see that many modern compilers make int 32-bit (which also means 4 bytes pretty ubiquitously). The reason your book says 2 bytes is most probably because it's old.J
Why is String Immutable in Java?
Were String not immutable, a connection or file would be changed and lead to serious security threat. Mutable strings could cause security problem in Reflection too, as the parameters are strings. Efficiency The hashcode of string is frequently used in Java. For example, in a HashMap.
What is constructor chaining in Java?
Constructor chaining is the process of calling one constructor from another constructor with respect to current object. Constructor chaining can be done in two ways: Within same class: It can be done using this() keyword for constructors in same class.

The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
-Serial Collector is mostly designed for single-threaded environments. -Parallel Garbege Collector is used for multi-threaded environments  
What is JIT stands for?
Just In Time.
Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
Garbage Collection. Garbage collection is the process of freeing space in the heap or the nursery for allocation of new objects. This section describes the garbage collection in the JRockit JVM.
Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
No
What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
-Java objects reside in an area called the heap. The heap is created when the JVM starts up and may increase or decrease in size while the application runs. -Garbage collection is the process of looking at heap memory, identifying which objects are in use and which are not, and deleting the unused objects. 
What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
Reflection is an API which is used to examine or modify the behavior of methods, classes, interfaces at runtime.

The required classes for reflection are provided under java.lang.reflect package.
Reflection gives us information about the class to which an object belongs and also the methods of that class which can be executed by using the object.
Through reflection we can invoke methods at runtime irrespective of the access specifier used with them.

what is multithreading in java?
Multithreading in java is a process of executing multiple threads simultaneously. Thread is basically a lightweight sub-process, a smallest unit of processing. Multiprocessing and multithreading, both are used to achieve multitasking.
What is the use of synchronization in Java?
So there is a need to synchronize the action of multiple threads and make sure that only one thread can access the resource at a given point in time. This is implemented using a concept called monitors. Each object in Java is associated with a monitor, which a thread can lock or unlock.
What is Framework?
While frameworks generally refer to broad software development platforms, the term can also be used to describe a specific framework within a larger programming environment. For example, multiple Java frameworks, such as Spring, ZK, and the Java Collections Framework (JCF) can be used to create Java programs
What are the testing Framework available in java?
The Java testing framework is very simple to use, and provides annotations for test method identifications. ... Although JUnit is a popular unit testing framework, it can also be used for integration and acceptance tests.
Difference between jUnit and testNG?
Major difference in TestNG and JUnit test frameworks is their scope. I suggest to use TestNG as core unit test framework for Java project, because TestNG is more advance in parameterize testing, dependency testing and suite testing (Grouping concept). TestNG is meant for high-level testing and complex integration test.
What are the dependencies for this project?
Dependencies are the relationships of the preceding tasks to the succeeding tasks. Tasks may have multiple preceding tasks and multiple succeeding tasks. The most common dependency relationship is a finish-to-start relationship. ... Project Insight, project management software, supports all four dependency relationships.
what is dependency injection in java?
A framework class, usually called the dependency container, could analyze the dependencies of this class. With this analysis it is able to create an instance of the class and inject the objects into the defined dependencies, via Java reflection. ... If dependency injection is used, a Java class can be tested in isolation.
What is static binding and dynamic binding?
Static binding in Java occurs during compile time while dynamic binding occurs during runtime. private , final and static methods and variables use static binding and are bonded by compiler while virtual methods are bonded during runtime based upon runtime object.








